this is a pir sensor specifically an
elegu
hc sr501
we can use a pir sensor in our projects
to detect motion
let's take a look at the pir sensor
itself if we look at the bottom
side we will see three
pin headers here here and here power
ground and the middle pin is the output
on my pir the labels for the three pins
were hidden underneath this little
plastic dome
if we take that off i can see here vcc
ground and out right here
there are two potentiometers one will
adjust
the sensitivity of the pir the other
part will change the amount of time the
pir will wait
after it has detected motion to begin
detecting motion again
full clockwise on the sensitivity pot is
the highest sensitivity
fully counterclockwise on the timer pot
is the lowest amount of time
which i've noticed is approximately 10
seconds
on my pir the pots were not labeled in
any way so i had to figure out which was
which
i used a marker to color the sensitivity
pot see it right
there so i know this one controls the
sensitivity
and this one controls the time
there is also a jumper right here which
is labeled
h for high or l for low when the jumper
is on
h the pir will output a logical high or
5 volts
when it detects motion and will continue
to output a high
until the timer runs out whether
additional motion is detected or not
once the timer has elapsed the pir will
go low again
unless motion is detected again when the
jumper is on
l or low the pir will alternate
output high or low each time it detects
motion
for our purposes today we will leave it
on high
here we have an led and a current
limiting resistor
as you can see when i apply
5 volts to the anode right here
it lights up so let's set this circuit
up
so that the led will light when the pir
detects motion
we are only using the arduino board for
power
and ground so we're going to connect
power and ground
of the ground here
to the pir sensor and we have 5 volts
power here and again all we're using the
arduino board for
is to get the power to it so the only
thing left
is this connection right here in the
middle the output
[Music]
and that output
is going to go from
here the middle pin
[Music]
back over to
the board here and finally i'll put the
little plastic
i'll put the little plastic cover back
on
and you can see our led has already lit
up
let's get a little distance from it
and see how it works okay we got a
little distance from
it i am zoomed in a little bit and we're
going to approach it
and you can see it already lit up now
you're going to have to play around with
the sensitivity and timer settings for a
while
i'm going to get out of range of it
again and
you should see it here in just a moment
it should go out
there it went out
see as i approach it it lights up again
let's see if we can stay still here and
make it go out
it does take the timer just a little bit
to reset
it should be reset now and it comes on
again
if you are using a microcontroller you
can test the output of the pir
instead of using it to power an led we
will be doing this in a future video
that was the pir sensor in just a couple
of minutes thanks for watching and don't
forget to subscribe to the channel
if you want to see more content like
this